I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, and did know, during the longest yarn.
I have Joan Barnes with me and she's going to talk about her childhood during the war.
Joan, have you got any special memories for us?
Yes, we have lots of special memories really. I can remember how the war broke out and I
can remember neighbours getting together and crying because the war, their husbands would
be either going into the army or the forces or the home guard. So it was an upsetting
time. I would be at school soon afterwards and of course we all had masks.
So you had gas masks?
Oh yes, my younger brother had one in a box and it was a Mickey Mouse one. It was in a box and
they sat in it and as they got a little bit older they had a Mickey Mouse one. So they used to put
them on their face and flap their nose.
So they had a Mickey Mouse nose on it?
Yes they did.
Goodness. So what other memories? Did your dad go to war?
No, my father didn't go to war because we were from a mining village and he worked down the pit.
But odd warms have in the family. My dad's brother was in the war and he went abroad. He did come
back. He came back safely.
So do you remember rationing then?
Oh yes. We had ration books until the 50s because they got married in the 50s so I know they still
had ration books.
So did you feel that you wanted to eat sweets or you wanted more butter? But you were in a mining
community so was there farms?
Yes, there was no thought of saying I want to eat sweets and stamp my feet. No, no, there was
no sweets and that was it. Yes. We used to eat, mum used to peel a carrot and you could eat a
raw carrot.
A very satisfying raw carrot.
Yes, yes.
So were there any bad memories that you have?
I don't remember much about it but an aircraft did go over the village and swept quite low
and dropped a bomb on the edge of the village. They never knew whether he got a spare one or
whether he was aiming for the colliery so we never knew that.
And was anyone hurt in the...
No, no but the plagues it was because it crashed.
Oh, right.
Yes, a German crashed.
And so...
And then there was the wardens. Another thing is you have to black out your windows,
they said be knocking on your door.
And where did you go if there was an air raid siren or just wasn't there because...
Well, they built air raid shelters. I don't know how good they'd be because they were brick.
I think most probably there was wires somewhere in the roof of them.
But people got together, brought neighbours together. I know we used to get under the
stairs and that would have made a difference but you felt you were close and coming up.
It brought neighbourhood together, it brought people together.
So you think that maybe it was a time for being more social and friendlier?
Because sometimes conflict does bring people together.
I think so, yeah. And even before that, people, all their husbands worked in the coronary so
everybody was on level with... Yes.
So your childhood really, despite the fact that the war ran through your childhood...
It didn't. No, it didn't.
You were happy.
Yeah, if we were in school, they'd got cellars underneath and we used to go there.
And it was horrible because there was this like sandy smell.
So we'd all go in with pinching our noses.
On that note then, Joan, I'll say thank you very much indeed.
Thank you.